TELCODOCS-285: Added sections about Cluster Group Upgrades Operator (#40392)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-apply-policies.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="talo-apply-policies_{context}"]
= Applying update policies to managed clusters

> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. As the remediation plan progresses, the clusters are added one by one in the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy to the current cluster in the current batch. After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.

Author: > The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. **One by one, the Operator adds each cluster in the current batch to the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy.** After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.

@bobfuru How does that sounds?
@irinamihai Could you please check if this rephrasing is accurate?

> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. As the remediation plan progresses, the clusters are added one by one in the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy to the current cluster in the current batch. After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.

Reviewer: Added suggestion in the doc.

> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. As the remediation plan progresses, the clusters are added one by one in the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy to the current cluster in the current batch. After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.

Reviewer: @amolnar-rh Yes, please start as Ian suggested

.Prerequisites

* Install the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator.
* Provision one or more managed SNO clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR, and then save the YAML in the `cgu-cr.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: du-upgrade-4915
  namespace: ztp-group-du-sno
spec:

>   deleteObjectsOnCompletion: true

Reviewer 2: I think deleteObjectsOnCompletion is deprecated (see https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2040874). Now it should be as below (under spec):

```
spec:
  actions:
    afterCompletion:
      deleteObjects: true
```

  clusters: <1>
  - cnfdb1
  - cnfdb2
  enable: true
  managedPolicies:
  - du-upgrade-platform-upgrade <2>
  remediationStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 2 <3>
    timeout: 240 <4>
----
<1> The list of clusters to update.
<2> The name of the policy to apply.
<3> The `maxConcurrency` field signifies the number of clusters updated at the same time.
<4> The update timeout in minutes.

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f cgu-cr.yaml
----

.Verification

. Check if the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR was created in the Hub cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get cgu -A -w

Author: @alosadagrande I updated the name to correspond with the example I used.

@imiller0 If removing it doesn't change the output, I could delete it. Otherwise, I'd need a new output

----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE          NAME              AGE
ztp-group-du-sno   du-upgrade-4915   5s
ztp-install        cnfdb1            4d5h
ztp-install        cnfdb2            4d5h
----

. Check the status of the policies by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get policies -A | grep upgrade
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
cnfdb1                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                   inform               Compliant          3d19h
cnfdb2                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-4915-du-upgrade-platform-upgrade   enforce              Compliant          23s <1>
cnfdb2                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                   inform               NonCompliant       3d19h
ztp-group-du-sno      du-upgrade-4915-du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                    enforce              Compliant          24s <1>
ztp-group-du-sno      du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                                    inform               NonCompliant       3d19h

----

> <1> The status of the targeted clusters is changed to `enforce``.

Reviewer: @imiller0 That is only for the install part. In here, TALO is creating the copied policies and the corresponding placement rules&bindings in the same namespace as the CGU, which is ztp-group-du-sno.

I think we should remove the child policies from the example output (those from ns cnfdb1 and cnfdb1) - these represent ACM standard behavior which is not of interest in this doc.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="talo-apply-policies_{context}"]
= Applying update policies to managed clusters

> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator remediates a set of managed policies in the specified clusters. Then, the Operator makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. One by one, the Operator adds each cluster in the current batch to the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy. After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator remediates a set of managed policies in the specified clusters. TALO makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. One by one, TALO adds each cluster from the current batch to the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy. After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.
```

Reviewer: Another note to make here is that if a cluster is already compliant with a managed policy, TALO won't try to reapply that policy on the cluster, but it will skip it and move to the next policy for which the current cluster is NonCompliant.

Reviewer: Also, we should clearly state that the managed policies should be in inform.

Author: Added `inform` and info about TALO skipping clusters. Plus divided into to paragraphs for readability.
> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator remediates a set of **`inform`** policies for the clusters specified in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR. Then, TALO makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. 
>One by one, TALO adds each cluster from the current batch to the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy. If a cluster is compliant with a policy, TALO skips applying the policy on the compliant cluster. TALO then moves on to applying the next policy, with which the cluster is non-compliant. After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.

.Prerequisites

* Install the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator.
* Provision one or more managed clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Create an {rh-rhacm} policy in the Hub cluster.

.Procedure

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR, and then save the YAML in the `cgu-cr.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: du-upgrade-4915
  namespace: ztp-group-du-sno
spec:
  deleteObjects: true
  clusters: <1>
  - cnfdb1
  - cnfdb2
  enable: true
  managedPolicies:
  - du-upgrade-platform-upgrade <2>
  remediationStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 2 <3>
    timeout: 240 <4>
----
<1> The list of clusters to update.
<2> The name of the policy to apply.
<3> The `maxConcurrency` field signifies the number of clusters updated at the same time.
<4> The update timeout in minutes.

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f cgu-cr.yaml
----

.Verification

. Check if the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR was created in the Hub cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get cgu-cr -A -w

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get cgu -A -w
```
Please also check other occurrences. The short name is cgu, not cgu-cr.

----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE          NAME              AGE
ztp-group-du-sno   du-upgrade-4915   5s

> ztp-install        cnfdb1            4d5h

Reviewer: Remove this line and the one below. These are older CGUs that were not created by applying the yaml above.

ztp-install        cnfdb2            4d5h
----

. Check the status of the policies by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get policies -A | grep upgrade
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
cnfdb1                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                   inform               Compliant          3d19h
cnfdb2                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-4915-du-upgrade-platform-upgrade   enforce              Compliant          23s <1>
cnfdb2                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                   inform               NonCompliant       3d19h
ztp-group-du-sno      du-upgrade-4915-du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                    enforce              Compliant          24s <1>
ztp-group-du-sno      du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                                    inform               NonCompliant       3d19h

----

> <1> The status of the targeted clusters is changed to `enforce``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The status of the policies currently applies on the cluster is set `enforce``.
```

Please add a note explaining that the initial inform managed policies remain in inform throughout the upgrade.

. Check the status of the update by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get clusterversion,node

Reviewer: I think this is misleading. This describes how to check the status of the platform upgrade that happens as a result of the managed policy being a platform upgrade policy.

I think we should make it clear here that:
1. In order to check the status of the CGU you need to look at either the output of `oc get cgu -n <namespace> <cgu_cr_name> -o jsonpath='{.status}'` or `the status part of c get cgu -n <namespace> <cgu_cr_name> -oyaml`
2. if one of the managed policies is of platform upgrade type, you can check the status of the upgrade by using the command at line 95.

* Create {rh-rhacm} policies in the Hub cluster.

.Procedure

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR, and then save the YAML in the `cgu-upgrade-complete.yaml` file.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: du-upgrade-4915
  namespace: ztp-group-du-sno
spec:
  actions:
    afterCompletion:
      deleteObjects: true
  clusters: <1>
  - cnfdb1
  - cnfdb2
  enable: false
  managedPolicies:
  - du-upgrade-platform-upgrade <2>
  remediationStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 2 <3>
    timeout: 240 <4>
----
<1> The list of clusters to update.
<2> The name of the policy to apply.
<3> The `maxConcurrency` field signifies the number of clusters updated at the same time.
<4> The update timeout in minutes.

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f cgu-upgrade-complete.yaml
----

. Change the value of the `spec.enable` field to `true` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --namespace=default patch clustergroupupgrade.ran.openshift.io/cgu-upgrade-complete \
--patch '{"spec":{"enable":true}}' --type=merge
----

> . When you want to start the update, apply the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:

Author: @irinamihai This comment was made on outdated file as well and it's way down in my current version. I'm just wondering if my current one is correct?

> . When you want to start the update, apply the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:

Reviewer: @amolnar-rh Yep, I've added other small comments.

Due to managed cluster or {rh-rhacm} issues, the managed policies can be missing status information that TALO needs. TALO handles these cases in the following ways:

* If a policy's `status.compliant` field is missing, TALO ignores the policy and TALO adds a log entry. Then TALO continues looking at the policy's `status.status` field.
* If a policy's `status.status` is missing, TALO throws an error.
* If a cluster's compliance status is missing in the policy's `status.status` field, TALO considers that cluster to be non-compliant with that policy.

For more information about {rh-rhacm} policies, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.4/html-single/governance/index#policy-overview[Policy overview].

.Prerequisites

* Install the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator.
* Provision one or more managed clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Create {rh-rhacm} policies in the Hub cluster.

.Procedure

> . Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR, and then save the YAML in the `cgu.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR content in the `cgu.yaml` file.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="talo-apply-policies_{context}"]
= Applying update policies to managed clusters

> The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR notifies the Topology-Aware Lifecycle Operator to update the current cluster version to the version specified in the update policy. This action changes the status of the {rh-rhacm} policy from `inform` to `enforce`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Topology-Aware Lifecycle Operator is making enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. As we are progressing with the remediation plan, the clusters are added one by one in the placement rule corresponding the managed policy that has to be applied on the current cluster in the current batch. Once a batch is completed all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated to the copied policies.
```

> The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR tells the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator to update the current cluster version to the version specified in the update policy. This means that the status of the {rh-rhacm} policy is changed from `inform` to `enforce`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR notifies the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator to update the current cluster version to the version specified in the update policy. This action changes the status of the {rh-rhacm} policy from `inform` to `enforce`.
```

.Prerequisites

* Install the Topology-Aware Lifecycle Operator.
* Provision one or more managed SNO clusters using ZTP.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR, and then save the YAML in the `cgu-cr.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: du-upgrade-4915
  namespace: ztp-group-du-sno
spec:
  deleteObjectsOnCompletion: true

>   Clusters: <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  clusters: <1>
```

  - cnfdb1
  - cnfdb2
  enable: true
  managedPolicies:
  - du-upgrade-platform-upgrade <2>
  remediationStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 2 <3>
    timeout: 240 <4>
----
<1> The list of clusters to update.

> <2> The name of the policy to enforce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The name of the policy to apply
```

<3> The `maxConcurrency` field signifies the number of clusters updated at the same time.
<4> The update timeout in minutes.

> . Create the CR by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f cgu-cr.yaml
----

.Verification

. Check if the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR is created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cgu -A -w
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
cnfdb1                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                   inform               Compliant          3d19h
cnfdb2                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-4915-du-upgrade-platform-upgrade   enforce              Compliant          23s <1>
cnfdb2                ztp-group-du-sno.du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                   inform               NonCompliant       3d19h
ztp-group-du-sno      du-upgrade-4915-du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                    enforce             Compliant          24s <1>

> ztp-group-du-sno      du-upgrade-platform-upgrade                                    inform               NonCompliant       3d19h

Author: Updated!

----

> <1> The status of the targeted clusters is changed to enforce.

Reviewer: I don't understand what we're trying to show in lines 71 to 88.

Reviewer: The integration tests from TALO have a bunch of complete examples: https://github.com/openshift-kni/cluster-group-upgrades-operator/tree/main/tests/kuttl/tests

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="talo-apply-policies_{context}"]
= Applying update policies to managed clusters

The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator remediates a set of `inform` policies for the clusters specified in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR. Then, TALO makes enforced copies of the managed {rh-rhacm} policies. Each copied policy has its own corresponding {rh-rhacm} placement rule and {rh-rhacm} placement binding. 

One by one, TALO adds each cluster from the current batch to the placement rule that corresponds with the applicable managed policy. If a cluster is already compliant with a policy, TALO skips applying that policy on the compliant cluster. TALO then moves on to applying the next policy, with which the cluster is non-compliant. After a batch is updated, all clusters are removed from the placement rules associated with the copied policies. Then, the update of the next batch starts.

> 

Reviewer 4: Another case worth mentioning is changes on inform policies while upgrade is in progress. We need to call out that it's not supported and upgrade can get stuck as the enforce policies are not consistent with updated inform policies. Recovery could be delete the CGU and restart the procedure by creating a new one.
